#summary Deploying Google Search Appliance Search Proxy Application.

=Intoduction=

This document covers the steps for deploying Google Search Appliance Search Proxy Application on IIS 6.0.

==Instructions for manual deployment of Google Search Appliance Search Proxy Application==

  * The Google Search Appliance Search Proxy Application can be deployed on machine with Internet Information Services (IIS) installed.
  * The documents should be fed and indexed on appliance before performing search .
  * Modify web.config file to include your GSA specific settings to be used by the Google Search Appliance Search Proxy Application.
  {{{
        <appSettings>
		<add key="siteCollection" value="default_collection" />
		<add key="GSALocation" value="http://myappliance.mydomain.com" />
		<add key="frontEnd" value="default_frontend" />

                <!--Optional parameter: Cookie domain parameter gives you the flexibility to change\configure the domain of the newly added cookies -->
		<!--add key="cookieDomain" value=".mydomain.com" /-->

                <!--set verbose value="True" to enable information level logs-->
		<add key="verbose" value="False" />

                <!--Specify location for the log files -->
		<add key="logLocation" value="C:\" />
	</appSettings>
   }}}

==Steps:==

  # Open IIS Manager.
  # In IIS, right click on the "Web Sites" folder and click New->Web Site..
  # Click on Next.
  # Enter "Google Search Appliance Search Proxy Application" under Description.
  # Enter port number.
  # Enter port number. Click on Next
  # Enter the Path to point to the proxy application directory.
  # Uncheck "Allow anonymous access to this web site". Click Next.
  # Check options Read, Run scripts, Browse and Execute. Click Next.
  # Click Finish.

==Customization of Proxy Application==

This is a general search proxy application. You can create you own custom search box and then fire a HTTP GET request on GSASearchProxy.aspx with query parameters same as GSA. The proxy application will internally fire this query to GSA  and return secure results with the same user context.