#summary Manual installation steps

= Introduction =
This document walks you through the steps to manually install a connector. The instructions mentioned here are applicable to connector version 2.x and above

Google strongly recommends that you use the installer for installing the connector. Though, you may want to do it manually if,
 * You have built and installed a customized connector manager or a customized version of the connector
 * You want to deploy the connector on an existing Tomcat installation
 * You are installing a patch release that is not packaged with an installer. 

== Pre-requisites ==

 * Apache Tomcat 6. You can download it from it from http://tomcat.apache.org/download-60.cgi 
 * JRE1.5 or above. Refer to http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index_jdk5.jsp for downloads

== Steps to Install ==
To install the connector manually, follow the instructions given below:

1. On the Tomcat host, shut down Tomcat if it is running. 

2. Go to $CATALINA_HOME\bin directory.
   * For Windows Users
   Edit the following files:
   setclasspath.bat

 {{{
   Add the following lines in the start of the file:
   set JRE_HOME=<JRE_HOME>
   set PATH=%PATH%;
   
   Add the following lines just before "rem Set standard command for invoking Java":
   rem Google Enterpise Connector Logging
   set CONNECTOR_LOGGING= %CATALINA_HOME%\webapps\connector-manager\WEB-INF\lib\connector-logging.jar
   if not exist "%CONNECTOR_LOGGING%" goto noConnectorLogging
   set CLASSPATH=%CLASSPATH%;%CONNECTOR_LOGGING%
   :noConnectorLogging
 }}}
   * For Linux Users, 
   Edit setclasspath.sh
{{{
     Add the following lines in the start of the file:
     export JRE_HOME=<JRE_HOME>
     export PATH="$PATH":"$JRE_HOME"/bin
     
     Add the following lines just before "# OSX hack to CLASSPATH":
     # Google Enterpise Connector Logging
     CONNECTOR_LOGGING="$CATALINA_HOME"/webapps/connector-manager/WEB-INF/lib/connector-logging.jar
     if [ -f "$CONNECTOR_LOGGING ]; then
     CLASSPATH="$CLASSPATH":"$CONNECTOR_LOGGING"
     fi
}}}
    
    Please make sure that all the shell scripts (with ".sh" as extension) have execute permissions. 

3. If you do not have the connector manager installed, follow these steps to get the same:      
   * Start a web browser and navigate to http://code.google.com/p/google-enterprise-connector-manager/downloads/list
   * Download the correct binary distribution compressed file for your platform
   * Unzip or untar the compressed file
   * copy the connector-manager.war to $CATALINA_HOME/webapps directory 
   * Start Tomcat so that the connector manager gets deployed. To confirm that the connector manager has been properly deployed under Tomcat confirm that a directory with the name connector-manager has been created under $CATALINA_HOME/webapps directory
   Also you can check for http://localhost:8080/connector-manager/testConnectivity which will displays the connectivity status or http://localhost:8080/connector-manager/startUp which will display a message indicating the successful deployment of Connector Manager
   * Shut down the Tomcat to start with the further steps.

4. Start a web browser and navigate to the download site on code.google.com. 

5. Download the correct SharePoint connection version (connector-sharepoint-{{{<version>}}}.zip). 

6. Unzip the compressed file. 

7. Copy the connector-sharepoint.jar file from the root directory to the $CATALINA_HOME/webapps/connector-manager/WEB-INF/lib directory. 

8. Copy the files in the /lib directory to the $CATALINA_HOME/webapps/connector-manager/WEB-INF/lib directory. 

9. Do the following changes in $CATALINA_HOME/bin/catalina.bat (catalina.sh on Linux):
   * Find the following line:
{{{
     set JAVA_OPTS=%JAVA_OPTS% -Djava.util.logging.manager=org.apache.juli.ClassLoaderLogManager -Djava.util.logging.config.file="%CATALINA_BASE%\conf\logging.properties"
}}}
   * Change it to the following:
{{{
     set JAVA_OPTS=%JAVA_OPTS% -Djava.util.logging.manager=java.util.logging.LogManager -Djava.util.logging.config.file="%CATALINA_BASE%\webapps\connector-manager\WEB-INF\classes\logging.properties"
}}}
    For Linux use $CATALINA_BASE

10. In the $CATALINA_HOME/webapps/connector-manager/WEB-INF folder, create a directory or folder called classes. 

11. Copy the logging.properties file from the /Config folder to the /classes folder. 

12. Open the logging.properties file in a text editor and set the value of java.util.logging.FileHandler.pattern equal to the absolute path of the log file.

    java.util.logging.FileHandler.pattern={{{<value of $CATALINA_HOME>}}}/logs/google-connectors%g.log

13. Start the Tomcat server. 

14. To confirm whether the Tomcat server has started correctly and the connector is installed, navigate to the $CATALINA_HOME/webapps/connector-manager/WEB-INF/connectors directory, and verify that the $CATALINA_HOME/webapps/connector-manager/WEB-INF/connectors/sharepoint-connector directory exists. 

15. You can also check if the connector type has been detected by the Connector Manager using the following URL:

    http://localhost:8080/connector-manager/getConnectorList 